# App-Statistical-overview-of-a-dataset
Making informed decisions requires a meticulous, step-by-step process of data analysis. Before beginning the analysis, it is crucial to look at the dataset's descriptive statistical overview. This app helps you get the general statistical description of a dataset, a clear idea of the measures you need to take to clean your data, and helps you ask the right questions. It has the following functionalities: First, the size of the data. Second, the dataset column names. Using this might correct some misspelled columns' names or rename your variables to meaningful expressions that clearly express their purpose. Third,  the data column types.
Identifying the different data types helps you define which variables need to be formatted. Fourth, missing values are a common problem in data cleaning. Analyzing the percentage of missing values gives you a better notion of the method to use to process them. For example, removing missing values, applying an imputation technique (replacing by zero, constant, mean, median, most frequent value, etc.). Fifth, the descriptive statistics summary of the numerical  data gives you an idea of the potential outliers that can have a disproportionate effect on your data. It also helps you get the variables with low variance. These kinds of variables add little to no information to your analysis and, therefore, are irrelevant and have to be removed. Sixth, descriptive statistics summary of the categorical data. This can be used to determine whether the population is biased or to possibly fix the category's error if any. For instance, if a user entered "SINGLE" and another one entered "ALONE," the information would fall under the same category, "SINGLE." So, this kind of error has to be addressed before starting the analysis. 
       https://lamisghoualmi-app-statistical-overview-o-dataoverviewapp-3jcy1v.streamlitapp.com/
